Hi everyone. Before we start we have some really really exciting news. We are
going to do the Edinburgh Festival. We'll be doing the 26th to the 30th of August
and it's going to be a real real great laugh and we really hope that you come
along and watch us. If you want to get details go to qi.com/fishevents and
that'll take you everywhere you need to go to get the tickets. On with the show.
Hello and welcome to another episode of no such thing as a fish a weekly podcast
coming to you from the qi offices in Covern Garden. My name is Dan
Triver. I'm sitting here with Anichesensky Andy Murray and James Harkin.
Once again we have gathered around the microphone with our four favorite facts
from the last seven days and in no particular order here we go. Starting with
you Chazinski. My fact is that instead of being one of the founders of the USA
Benjamin Franklin almost stayed in Britain to found a swimming school on the
Thames. This was his big idea in his early 20s so he lived in London. He was
working for a printer as the printer's apprentice and he liked to swim and
he nobleman used to queue up along the size of the Thames and be like what
is this guy doing? He's swimming. Which bit of the Thames is this sort of London.
So he used to swim from black fries to Chelsea which was three miles I think
or roughly three miles so that bit of the Thames. How long was he here for? He came
back and forth I think so he was here initially for a few years and then he
considered selling up a swimming school because he was teaching all these
nobleman's kids to swim and he asked a friend for advice as to whether he
should and this friend said I don't think that's a regular idea why didn't you
come and work for me in America again so he left Britain in about 1726 I think.
He also one of his lesser spoken about inventions is that he invented
basically flippers for the hands. This is how much he loves swimming. He invented
hand flippers for while you were swimming. And I think he was a child in fact when
he did that wasn't he? He was about 11. Yeah. Another crazy invention of his
which I just love his lesser ones. Basically he invented a method for getting a
book down from a bookshelf. It was way too high. He invented what's called the
book arm and it was basically an extended stick that you would reach up and
grip on to books and take them down off the shelf. Have you heard his pseudonyms?
Because he had a load of pseudonyms. He had female ones didn't he? Yes he did so
he when he was a boy he wanted to write in his brother's newspaper and his
brother didn't let him. So he wrote in the guise of a middle-aged widow. Silence
do good. That was the widow's name. The later one was Polly Baker who was a
fictional woman who had had children out of wedlock and being punished for it.
And there was Alice Adetung who was another widow. Celia Shortface, Martha Careful
and Miss Busy Body. He also the one of the women you mentioned and I can't remember
which one, maybe the first one. I hope it's Celia Shortface. It's not Celia Shortface
was he created her quite ahead of his time in order to show the one you had
religious met children and stuff. Oh Polly Baker. Yeah Polly Baker was
created to comment on society's prejudice towards women in their attitudes
women who'd been mistreated. Amazing before we think it. I think you have more
female pseudonyms than male ones. I've certainly found a lot more female ones. I don't
like Polly Baker because it's not like a funny one like the others is it? That's a
typical man's response. Polly Baker would have been all over that. When it was hot
he said you should you should sleep in two beds. What at the same time? He said
you should sleep in one until you're uncomfortable and you just go to the other
one. He obviously not discovered the pillow over to get the cold side. No it's been
attributed to him but I don't think he invented it. He should have invented a
claw to turn it out. But he also said it's okay if you just have a very large bed
you can just get up and go to a different bit of the bed. I don't know sorry I
don't see why you don't have a large bed you don't have to get up and go to another
part of the bed. How large a bed? Really large. You're going to get a taxi to
the other part. You get up you pack a snack and a few toiletries and head off. Top left corner
please. But he also invented, this isn't really an invention. He invented a device
by which he could unlock and lock his bedroom door from his bed without having to
get up. Really? So maybe that was also a cruelling device.
It's an invention one of those as well. Did he? Well they're probably having a big fight
up in heaven right now. Of a right. Of a property? Yes. To the incredibly successful
invention that they both come up with that everyone can't do without these days. Do you
know until the 1930s there were water slides along the Thames? Floating baths, temporary
lidoes, pontoons and water slides all the way along the Thames because people used to
swim in it so much. Oh my god. That's amazing. And now it's illegal. So the first of a swimming
book was written in 1539 by a German guy called Nicolaus Weinmann or Vinmann and it recommended
various different swimming aids of buoyancy which included belts made of cork which they used
of in life preserve us for centuries, bundles of reeds and my favourite air filled cow
bladders. Oh that's good. Nice. Yeah. They had, I think people used pigs bladders in England
in the 16th century for it. The first guy to swimming in Britain, it was written in response
to that because it was thought that that didn't really tell you how to swim in more just
described swimming. I mean all I've got is how to float from it. So I have a whole thing
that isn't Latin but if you don't have bovine bladders then you're you're bugged. So this guy,
the first guy to swim was written by a guy called Everard Digby in 1587. He is not to be confused
with Everard Digby who was involved in the gunpowder plot or in fact the father of Everard Digby
of the gunpowder plot who's also called Everard Digby but also don't confuse this guy who
wrote the swimming book with the guy who replaced him as a clergyman who was also called Everard Digby.
Wait, one of the gunpowder plot was wrote a swimming guide. No, that's why I said don't confuse
him. I have to be ready. There was one thing they asked you to do and you just, I sort of didn't
hear the bit where she said don't and I just had confused him with. Was Everard Digby just like
the John Smith of its day? I think he must have been. What a great world to live in. Everyone's
called Everard Digby. I'm really Tom Dick and Everard Digby has been coming in here. Can I just say
the first person to get a call back to Everard Digby? So Everard Digby, the swimmer, he was a
clergyman who wrote a guide to swimming and why he comes out most strongly as I think BBC history
is reporting on this is in exhibitionist swimming so he describes what you should do. Is that like
synchronized swimming? Well, yeah, I think he's sort of like the grandfather of synchronized swimming
really because he explains how you can look good in the water. So he advises, think to do well
swimming. He showed you how to sit on the water while keeping a float, carry things in both hands
across the water, swimming holding one foot with one hand, useful, he says, useful if you happen
to get cramp. So before you ridicule, that's great. Swimming while dancing with both legs in the air.
Also maybe he's with a cramp and this is the best one. He also explains how to swim while
cutting your toenails in the water by lying on your back, bringing your knee up to your chest and
using a knife. So using a knife to cut your toenails in the water while floating on your back.
That's really cool. Yeah, it sounds great. I was reading about strokes because breast stroke
seems to be the oldest stroke that we know about. There's in fact cave paintings in Egypt where they
show people doing breast stroke. Really? No, not how do you know. How do they know that it's
breast stroke? I guess it just looks like it. The motion looks like it. But there's no motion in cave
paintings. I think they've got one of those peelable books but in stone. So you flip the book,
you see it moving. You flip the rock. You've got to run really fast when one came to the other.
And it's very untrue to say there's no flip paintings. Have you seen the documentary by
Bernard Herzog? Oh, so good. Extraordinary. And did you know about this? It's called Cave of
Forgotten Tree. Yeah, haven't seen it yet. They have there's one drawing of a horse. They would
draw horses and they would draw them with like five legs in motion. And you kind of think why they
doing that? Why does it look like that? And they realized that if you had a fire inside this cave
and you were looking at it, the flames would create the motion. Like a flicker. Exactly. So it would
give it like flip book kind of artistic running horse on the inside of a cave. So anyway, breast stroke
really old thing. This is a story that I read which I really like. 1844, breast stroke was the big
stroke for swimming in England. Two guys came over. Native Americans had a race and they used
front crawl. Yeah. Totally whipped ass like they just killed this race right. But no one liked it
because they thought it looked un-European. This is how British, British people are. They did not
take on that stroke until 1873. That was in 1844 that that happened. So what was the generation?
Yeah, a whole new thousands of hours wasted. Get this. In the 1900 Olympics, there was a 200 metre
obstacle swimming course. You were able to swim with the current because it was in moving water,
but you had to make it past three obstacles. You had to climb over two of them. One was a pole
and one was a row of boats and then you had to swim under the other one which was another row of
boats. That sounds great. Why have we not kept this? Yeah, that sounds amazing. Yeah. I've got another
Olympic one that I just want to flag up. 1896 summer Olympics. Athens. Athens. These were all of the
sporting events for swimming. Okay. 100 metre freestyle. Yeah. 500 metre freestyle. Yeah.
1200 metre freestyle. Yeah. Sailors. 100 metre freestyle. In which only sailors from Greece
who happen to be sailors who could enter the competition. Which country won gold? Yep. So
Greece won gold silver bronze. Well done. And no one lost because only three people entered the race.
We were talking about races and stuff like that in swimming. In 1791, three men swam from Westminster
bridge to London bridge for an eight guinea wager. The winner was carried to a pub to celebrate
where he drank so much gin he expired. Presumably the the the other two just split the four guinea's
each. I think second place would get it though. Yeah. The people used to swim loads in the
Thames didn't they? Yeah. I read that in 1880 there was a man dog race in the Thames and the dog one.
Really? So I think Windsor baths were these to have little bits of the Thames as James said at
the side. I think like Lido's set apart so you could swim in them and they had to move Windsor baths
in 1870 because it allowed Queen Victoria a view of the naked men. No. It was inappropriate.
Oh what? They moved it so that she couldn't see it. Sorry. No, the way you said it. It's like
in the Olympics how they moved the end of the marathon. So that the Queen could see the end.
The end of the race. The Victoria is like I really would like to see this thing. I rather
than have a good Queen Victoria the hidden pervert. Did you guys see the giant swastika that's been
spotted in a swimming pool? So there was a helicopter on a kidnapping mission to
imagine when you're you're doing a kidnapping mission but you like but we have to tell someone
about this pool. I'm so torn like I've got this letter from someone saying they've taken my child
and also apparently there's a sticker. Police said the unnamed homeowner would not be charged
as the swastika is on private land and was not on display to promote Nazism was you'd do wonder
why it was on display in just a Hindu side of peace which those clumsy, clumsy tylers put
in the wrong way around. If I wasn't a Hindu and so peaceful I'd be furious.
Okay time for fact number two. That's my fact. My fact this week is that sumo wrestling referees
carry a knife on them so that in the event that they make a bad decision during a match they can kill
themselves. How often does that happen? It hasn't actually happened traditionally the idea is that
they always made brilliant decisions or they thought actually it was bad but it wasn't that bad.
Sumo wrestler referees is it's a very high ranking they actually have rankings you become the sort
of the head of sumo wrestling referees they are the ones who carry the knife traditionally the idea
was that they would kill themselves because it was such an honor to be that high if they do bank
a bad decision these days they'll hand in their papers and say I'm retiring. So it's seen as yeah
but the knife is out to remind them that you should kill yourself. So if like the best football referee
like Howard Webb or someone would carry it but all the others wouldn't. Yes exactly. I love the idea
of a player going oh referee the referee thinking you're going no you're right you're
so the reason I found this fact is Anna and I were having a drink with her friend Meg. Meg was
telling us that sumo wrestlers are incredibly flexible and they can all do the splits. So I went
home and googled that straight away and they can. If you googled sumo wrestler splits on the internet
have a field day it's wonderful. I think it's easier because it's the weight of your torso just
jams. They're incredibly flexible. I assume they have to be athletic because it's it's a
weird double thing isn't it because they're they're really really heavy but also they're very very
athletic. Yeah yeah it is extremely hardcore the training isn't in the stables which is what the
schools that they kind of train in and I think one of the bits of training is you get your tutor
you have to do the splits and then your tutor forces your chest down onto the ground. Yeah it's
amazing so Anna's just said stables that's what they call it. It's sumo's have a kind of hog warts
where you get you go you're like you're like you've been picked as a sumo wrestler and you go and you
do put on your life. You put on the sorting nappy when you go in. Yeah and they live their lives in
there they they have to they do they do sit in class wearing nothing except the nappy when you
see their lessons they're just sitting in a class taking notes from the black board and you just
got all these huge tockless men. What's it called? It has got a proper name it's an M word I think.
It's the Mawashi. Mawashi. And if you if your Mawashi comes off during a fight then you have to
fall for the fight. There wasn't thing because obviously people think that it's a bit strange if they
haven't seen sumo before that they're wearing what look like nappies. Yeah. So there was a few years
ago they the a few years ago the Japanese amateur sumo association announced this plan to let young
players compete in shorts and because normally you're any fight wearing the Mawashi and it was
thought it would get more young people involved in it because they have a problem with this. So is it
shorts as well as them? No it's just shorts. There was a lot there was like you don't have anything to
grab on to. Surely that's an issue like because they kind of grab on to those. Yeah. So anyway it didn't
happen because the professional body said over our dead body that nobody in shorts would be allowed
into youth tournaments so it just completely died a death the idea. It's incredible the respect that
they have for all of the traditions including that and even the audience there are no heckles
whatsoever and this goes back to the referee thing if the referee makes a call regardless of what an
audience member thinks and regardless what the sumo wrestler thinks they just accept it. There's no
yelling there's no contending it's okay he called it that's his job it must be right. That's good. Yeah
it's a total respect and you have to be a good loser don't you and yeah never betray this
satisfaction with the result. Yeah it's like it's sort of like the polar opposite of a football match
basically really the crowd is singing the referee's an excellent half a turn. Yeah well he's got a knife
the most popular referee in the 19th century was called um ever-odd digby.
Damn it. Come on I held that up for you. The most prominent referee in the 19th century was called
Seagar Bastard and so that's why referees are nasty. I think you know there was a suggestion of that
but that actually came about about 60 years after he died but yeah and he became know he was so
good he became known as Knight of the Whistle so I like to think they made a call Tim Sir Bastard
after that. The Knight of the Whistle. Yeah. Do you want to hear something about the UK sumo scene?
This is from the UK Sumo website and it's it's also sad um at present the sport of sumo in the
UK has a very limited following. Regressively behind Dover's Whitecliffs there are no known
organizations or individuals with any recent training experience at any Japanese sumo clubs or
establishments although one Englishman did once join the sport in Japan. The UK is something of a
sumo desert. Oh that's sad. It is sad but it's not true for everyone because loads of top sumo
wrestlers at Eastern European. Yeah the Czech Republic is quite popular there as well. It's amazing
yeah and um of the Yorkazooners which is a top kind of thing um there's not any Japanese ones at the
moment I think they're all Mongolian. Wow really. Yeah I think the last something like the last 36
competitions have all been won by young Japanese people mainly in Mongolia. This is like the England
cricket team isn't it? We invent it everyone else beats us at it. Actually it is like that because if
you look it up it's exactly the articles are exactly like English people writing about cricket.
Articles are like what has happened to Japanese sumo wrestling we're being thrashed by foreigners
and it's a real problem I think and it's because it's really unpopular now amongst the youth isn't it
so the average age of like a sumo audience is over 60 and yeah so not a lot of young because young
people start to fall in country the UK we're we're never going to get cricket back or football back
we should maybe go into sumo. And the standard sumo diet is 10,000 calories a day I think in their
schools and they get force fed in thousand calories a day. Yeah it's a lot isn't it it's a good amount
that's a lot a blue whale can eat a million calories in one mouthful so that is what how many more
it's a thousand times that is it? It's not a competition between sumo wrestlers and blue whales a hundred
hundred times that so a hundred sumo wrestlers equals one blue whale. Wow. We do miss a day in a
mouthful. One blue whale mouthful. So a blue whale could eat a hundred sumo wrestlers in one mouthful
that's not quite what I say. And they do they all do that's why the sport is unpopular in Japan at
the moment. It's very hard to get people to sign up because they know. That's why the Japanese go
after the whales. It's revenge. So ex sumo wrestlers. Yeah again as with you know we have footballers
over here who go into weird and wacky things after they leave football. Oh yeah. One of the most famous
ones Konnishiki Yasukuchi became a hip-hop artist and hosted a children's TV show. One of my favorites
Yasuyuki Hirose. I got this on an article about ex sumo wrestlers from the Guardian. He can drink a
two litre bottle of orange phanta in ten seconds. That's his trick. He's also in a comedy group and
I quote directly his obesity related difficulties are often the topic of the group's jokes.
I think an alternative comedy revolution might be required.
Yeah. Ten seconds. Two litres of orange phanta. I can't drink two litres in a day.
I think I could drink two litres of water in that much time but orange phanta is pretty fizzy.
Two leases. How many pints is that? It's about four isn't it? I know I can't do that. I was drunk.
I think I had to drink four pints for a bet in ten minutes and I did that and I was violently sick.
I was working as a waiter. Excuse me. We asked some water ages ago. It hasn't arrived.
I could throw it off in the corner. Speaking of so they're overweight. As I think you mentioned,
they have to eat a lot and I was looking at overweight people in other sports and in the 1952
Olympics there was no weight restriction on the bobslay and there was no weight restriction
and only the German team I think it was realized that the way to go fast in bobslay is obviously
to put really heavy people on and so the average weight of a German bobslay entry in the 1952
Olympics was £260 which is almost 20 stone isn't it? I reckon they learned a lesson from that
Olympics and weight restriction is everywhere now. What was shame? So on referees? Oh yeah. I did not
know because I know nothing of sport that one man invented yellow cards and he was called Ken
Aston and he was a really tough referee. He was really good. He was involved in football. He was a
football referee. I was British and he was I think if it was in around the 50s or 60s but he just
seen an England Argentine match which was so rough that afterwards the Argentinian team tried to
break into the English dressing room. That's how bad it got. Wow. And one Argentinian player had been
pleading with the ref and it's just being very passionate about saying that was not a foul,
that wasn't offside whatever it was and he got sent off for violence of the tongue was the phrase
that was used and as Ken Aston was driving home he thought there must be a way of punishing someone
without just sending them off because there must be an intermediate stage and he said as I drove
down Kensington High Street the traffic light turned red I thought yellow take it easy red stop you're
off. So it's based on traffic lights. Yeah which is I mean it's what you deserve. Should be an
amber card. That's why I'm going to call it from that one. Oh god you're going to be even less
popular football matches. That was never an amber. On his ideas list was there carrier dagger in
order to commit suicide anywhere this is that feature in his brain storm. I once went to a party
where the host of the party employed the yellow card red card system. Yeah the idea was if you got
too drunk too rowdy you'd get a yellow card if you then repeated an offense you'd get a red card.
What happened when you got a record you had to go home. Yeah I had to go home. I got red carded.
I'm qualified. I'm a qualified referee do you know. Are you a football referee? Really? Yeah.
What level of you qualified could you do a premiership match? I did yeah I did a Marcel versus Swansea
this week but he's not allowed on the pitch anymore because of his new amber card system which is
met some resistance. James was actually a very successful referee for a long time but he was fired
after drinking all the halftime water. Four players died at first.
Okay time for fact number three and that is Harkin. My fact this week is a trailer for the longest
movie ever made has just been released and it's 72 minutes long. Wow. I like to think that the film
is just 73 minutes and they had a terrible editor. Is that okay? There's a lot of spoilers in this trailer.
No sadly the movie is 30 days long. Is it? The guy who's making this film I looked him
up a bit. He's called Anders Daybergs that right? That's right yeah. And he said it would be an
abstract non-linear narrative summary of the artist's time spent with the moving image.
Sounds great. And that it will show how space and time is intertwined into a surreal dream like
journey beyond places. Are there any action scenes? I don't know if there's a chase.
Isn't it going to be screen just once? Yeah I think that's the plan yeah although you know due to
popular demand they roll it out. DVD sales might be huge. You get 10 DVDs in the post.
It's supposedly it's going to be screen just once on every continent from the 31st of December 2020
onward so it's not here out for a while. Yeah and then it's going to be destroyed by the audiences.
Sounds terrible. Has anyone watched the trailer? No. Basically there's not enough time to watch
a 72 minute trailer. You can imagine going into the cinema to watch another film and this trailer
comes on and for the first couple of minutes it's really into it. I think by 45 minutes and you're thinking
God the trailers they go for ages this day. I really like in trailers now they do this they've
been doing it for a long time actually they show bits of movie that never make it to the final
movie. Really? Yeah. So many movies though because they'll release a trailer while they're still
cutting the movie and then a decision will be made when the final movie edit is happening we don't
need that scene and then they just go that's fine. It doesn't matter that it's in the trailer.
So like famously a lot of people know this about this particular movie but there's a movie called
the Transporter or Transporter. Jason Statham. That's right. In the movie they did not include
a classic scene in the trailer and it is a classic scene in the trailer where a missile is
launched to Jason Statham and he deflects it using a T-Tray. He just smacks it out of the way
like not interested. That's amazing. Why was that not put in the final film? Because Jason Statham
I think said no one's going to believe this and so but it made that they filmed it like he didn't
point that out before shooting it. He saw it in the script and went that's fantastic. But I continued
reading. I found this on IMDB. I continued reading just movie trivia for that particular movie. Can I
give you a couple? Yes please. Okay so one of them is that in the garage scene what was thought to be
transmission oil was in fact molasses syrup. Jason Statham reported to be a very sticky situation.
And then underneath the T-Tray knocking the missiles away to facts below it says that Jason Statham
did most of his own stunts. That's not a great. Weirdly there's an inventor of trailers. Didn't know
that. Yeah very famously a guy called nils grandland and he made the first trailer and it was for a
play called the pleasure secrets and it was in 1913. So he wanted people to come to the play so he
thought he would shoot incidents from the play and they showed it and then they realized that this
was a fantastic idea so they applied it to movies and he then made the first ever trailer for a movie
which was for a trolley chaplain movie. Yeah so chaplain had the first ever trailer. Is it right that
they're called trailers because they used to go after the movie? Yes. They used to trail the movie.
Exactly. They were trail the movie and get you excited about the next thing you could go and see.
And then presumably they stopped doing that because people just left. One of the things I find
weird is that the director who's doing the film you're talking about wayberg is he's only ever done
short films. So this is what I've extended. I call my next film. I love to mix out that in between
that. He really is. I have attached all the short films to each other to make a mega film.
But the run-or-up. So the longest film ever until, well the current longest film ever because
it's almost released yet. Yeah this one will be in the future. Yeah. It is modern times forever
and it's finished film. It's 240 hours long and IMTB describes its plotliners. The ever-slow decay
of Helsinki's store and so headquarters building. So that's what modern times forever is about.
It sounds really good film. Get a 6.4 on IMTB. It's how the headquarters are going to decay
over the next few thousand years. I think they projected it onto the building itself didn't they?
Oh did they? So you could kind of watch it happen as if it's happened. Oh wow. That's harsh as well.
That's harsh for the building. Well the building didn't mind. You like someone projecting your own
gruesome death onto you or something. Yeah. As you just hang out in the street. That's true.
Okay so have you heard of Don Lefontein? No. Okay he is the man that he's dead now unfortunately but
he was the one who is very famous for doing trailer voices. He's done more than 5000 film trailers
and his famous catchphrases in a world. Yeah. Because there was a film that satirized that
wasn't there. Oh yeah yeah with Lake Bell. Yes. In our world. That's so cool. Yeah he was a really
really amazing guy. His voice cracked at the age of 13 mid-sentence. His final role on television
was in the Phineas and the Ferb episode, The Chronicles of Meep. And he says the final line he ever
said which was in a world there. I said it. Happy. Oh really? This is a really cool. This is a thing
that almost predates. In fact it definitely predates film. It's a kind of early version of a movie.
It's so fantastic. It was a 19th century showman. His name was John Banvert and he invented this show
which consisted of 1,320 foot long painting of the Mississippi. It was a mural and it was on two
spindles like a VHS cassette. So at the start of the show it was all on one spindle and then you
pull it across to the other spindle and you start winding the other one round and it pulls it across
like a tape, like a videotape, but it shows this moving panorama of the river and he would do a show
for about you know for two hours telling stories about what was on the river and his wife played
music as it went and he was telling you know adventure stories and all the things that were happening.
Was there stuff on the river like pictures of boats and things? I think so. Yeah yeah exactly.
I think it wasn't just muddy. I think it wasn't just water for two hours and one thousand feet.
But isn't that amazing. It was an incredible long panorama and it was basically a very very early
proto film. When was that? Did you say? That was in the mid-19th century. So you know 50 years before
Blumia and Maddie. I remember reading about him in a book called Banvert's Folly. Have you heard of
that? No. Not much more to say about it apart from everyone should read it because it is a brilliant
book. It's just about famous people from history who are famous at the time but then they've been
completely forgotten. Oh wow. That sounds awesome. Such a great book. That's really cool. Yeah. Who
was Ben Fard? He was the guy who was talking about it. I've been talking about him for a minute.
Have you? Also yeah. How to go. Oh it's not great. Okay so before they had the talkies they had
the silent films and there was one patent that I found for the idea of getting the dialogue across
without being able to have the sound. Yep. And that was to have speech bubbles that came out of
acts as mouths like a party blower. Wow. So if you wanted to say good evening Mr. Shriver then I would
blow this party bubble and you'd be able to see the words and then it would come back and then you'd
say oh nice the mutual was dark. That is so I've never heard of that. That's fantastic. That's amazing.
That would be really cool. They never did it but it was a patent. I love that. In some way in
some alternative universe that is still how we're doing it. Yeah. That's the only difference
between this universe and that one. Because it was tried and it was just so good. It's so much fun
to watch. That's how all news reading is done. Yeah. Because it lightens bad news doesn't it?
So no one took it seriously. That's true. So what the actors and the actors would have to pause,
put it out of their pocket, put it in them, make sure they get the right one. And also you'd run out
of puff very fast. Yeah. After a while you'd be. Yeah. For a for a monologue. Now is the
winter of our discontent. One of the great silent film directors of the 1920s was this guy called
Eric von Stroheim. And I really like him because have you guys seen Sunset Boulevard? Yes. You have it.
So he's yeah me too. So he is the main character in that. He wasn't really an actor but he was a
director in the silent film generation. Sunset Boulevard is all about the decline of silent films
about this woman who's you know as big in the silent film age and her downfall and her servant is
played by this huge director and it always feels really poignant when you watch it because it's
actually about his decline and his demise. But what I also quite like about Eric von Stroheim is that
he created the best film ever made apparently in 1924 in 1924. So not many films. But it's called
Greed and it was another long one. So it was eight hours long and it was only watched by 12 people
in the end and most of those 12 people yeah because as well as by 12 people and then people decided
people aren't going to go and see this. So it was edited down by his producers and he was really
angry about that and they've lost the original eight hour film reel but apparently this is the
holy grail of like movie reels. This is the greatest film ever made according to those 12 people.
Wow that's great. So where has it gone like literally no one knows if we knew that then it wouldn't
be the holy grail. So where is the holy grail? I have a weird sort of this isn't really related but
it's to do with missing film as well. Which is a holy grail of missing film as well. When Mallory was
found on Everest because they found his body. The big hope was that they were going to find on him
his camera. Didn't have his camera on there. Does that prove what he'd been to the top on up?
The idea is if they made it there they would have just taken a photo that was the hope and they could
have seen on the camera they might have found there were no photos but the idea is maybe it was he
didn't have the camera on him which means that Irvin who's the other missing one of the two of Mallory
and Irvin was up there. He must have the camera on him and Kodak have said because of the way and
the nature of the height and the coldness that's going on that if that film is still out there it can
still be developed but only for a few more years. So they're desperately trying to find it because
it may hold the answer to whether or not they got up there. We've got to get out there. But it's
an amazing because that's from the 20s like that's built in obsolescence and technology these days
where they say it'll definitely run out after 90 years. I'm really sick of it. Yeah. If anyone's ever
been up to the top of Everest and not taking a photo. I bet it's so cold and uncomfortable and you
got to take your gloves off. I would take a photo of my thumb. That's what I'd do. Oh yes it's my
thumb at the top of Everest. Thumbs up. Thumbs down. No one is cranked up to me. Yes.
Tripiviser, two stars. Hillary when he got up there he took a piss. So I'm just saying he got
something out straight away. Okay. Despite the cold. He didn't take a photo of it.
Well that was a little trip. Okay time for our final fact of the show and that is Andrew Hunter Murray.
My fact actually this comes from we did a live show in Brussels a while ago and someone from the audience
volunteered this fact and it was so fantastic that I wrote it in my files and I've only just
rediscovered it. So this is the fact. It's that in the middle ages lots of churches had statues of
Jesus which had moving arms so that he could be taken down from the cross and carried around the
church and there were other statues which had the Virgin Mary with a working belly and you could
take out a model of the infant Christ. So these were four ceremonies in churches. So things like
Easter, good Friday you'd have the model of the Christ on the cross and you'd take it down and you
carry it to a version of his tomb for example. So the arms had to be fold downable so that you could
move him and carry him and there is an incredible I think it's a book on this it's about 300 pages
long it's huge it's called animated sculptures of the crucified Christ and it's incredible scholarly
work which you know it's every single one all across the world there are 126 which exist still
the vast majority were made between 1419 and 1530 it's as though they became huge and then
immediately disappeared yeah most of words like Pogs like when Pogs used in Easter to represent
the crucified Christ yeah. There's that really gruesome statue in Mexico isn't there which is a
statue of Jesus and he's covered in blood and stuff and it's when he's just been crucified and
they recently did an x-way of it and they realized that his teeth are real human teeth whoa and we
don't know why it's really disgusting it like human size Dodgers you have a massive mouth
what human is he like a tiny dog Jesus. He's life size humanity probably is life size. He's life
size yeah he's normal human size and he's yeah it's a grotesque statue but why are the human incisors
in it? I read about that and supposedly it was a custom a few centuries ago to donate body parts
of yours not for science but for religion. You donate them to the church so you could have like
a statue of Jesus with lots of different body parts from different people. I don't think that was
ever done because that's incredibly gruesome although this teeth one is real yeah and it was yeah
it was 18th century and I think they were donated by people as a way of showing their gratitude to
Christ. So what other ways could you give your body to? So people would give their own hair and
that could be used as sort of wigs and things like that. Another statue of the baby Jesus has
rabbit teeth in it. It's really peculiar. What's it Jesus has got these two buck teeth. What's up
God. So some of these other ones that were in churches in the Middle Ages some of them are
movable arms as I say. Some of them had mechanisms to open and close Christ's eyes. Wow yeah and
some of them were quite detailed and sort of advanced in terms of modeling and puppetry. Just
and a curiosity is this like an early action man like is that would that have inspired how toys move?
Well okay it's not as silly as it sounds because early Mary Annette were based on the Virgin Mary.
Is that why they call Mary Annette? Yes the Mary Annette comes from little Mary because it was a
model of the Virgin Mary which was used in devotional plays to show to teach children about religion
basically and some grownups. Yeah so depictions of Jesus. Yeah so early depictions of Jesus is quite
interesting because in the very early days people were very effe about depicting him as a person
because it was thought of being idolatrous and that was a no-no. So he was shown as a fifth. He was
shown as a fish. As a sif. He was shown as a fish because you know Iqthus was the the acronym that
they used is that right? It was an old way of Catholics talking to each other about fallacies and
yeah supposedly you draw a fish and that was the sign that you were saying that someone else dotted
the eye that was the sign they were a christian and then you could talk properly you know. And in some
depictions of Jesus these are about fifth century AD he has a magic wand. Oh wow. Is that all his
miracles? No no no it's not. He uses it to turn the water to wine and to raise Lazarus from the
dead and to create the loaves and the fishes. That's so cool. You know years ago James was telling me
that there were lost gospels and within those one of them Jesus fights a dragon. Yeah they're called
the infancy gospels and they're like gospels which were written around the time of today's
gospels but they were never used in the official Matthew, Matthew, and John kind of thing. There is one
where he kills dragons another one where he explodes snakes and another one where he kills a boy who
accidentally brushed against him. Wow. These sound much more exciting. Why weren't these the guys
that were being published? They were disappointed. They sounded a bit like young Jesus adventures.
You know you get young Indiana Jones and young James Bond things. Yeah. It sounded a bit like the
adventures of young fiction. The idea I think is that he does like slightly that with the child
brushing against him I think the idea is that he started and he was quite angry but then eventually
turned into a good peaceful person. I think that's the transformation. But you can see why those were not
sort of turned into proper gospel doctrine. I can see why they left the dragon ones out. Yeah.
Yeah. The censorship is what that was really wasn't it? I think this is cool speaking of statues.
The Statue of David, Michelangelo Statue of David, three of the four turtles were involved in
the making of it. Leonardo Michelangelo, Donatello. Yes. So Raphael wasn't involved. Where was Splinter
over all of this? It's such a good guy. He was master mining the whole thing. So the Statue of David
was commissioned about 100 years before it was actually built and Donatello was one on the sort of
committee that decided to be built and his students had some attempts and they cocked it up. And
eventually there was a sort of people applied to be the one who got to design the Statue of David
and Leonardo Da Vinci was considered but rejected and Michelangelo was accepted and he made it in two
years and everyone agreed it was this masterpiece but I quite enjoy that. That is totally awesome.
Except Leonardo wasn't like that because there was a committee that had to decide where to put it.
So at the moment it's outside the huge entrance of the Duomo Cathedral in Florence,
really prone in place. And the committee decided to put it there but Leonardo Da Vinci was on
that committee and he suggested that they put it in a little niche on the side of a much less
well-known building where it would be completely obscured because I'm guessing a little bit of
professional jealousy. Yeah, it must be right. That's great. I was looking into a statue that I've
known since childhood which has been a famous one for me. Do you remember when Michael Jackson released
his history album and he made that there was huge giant statues of himself? Do you remember?
I don't know but okay yeah yeah. So they made 10 massive statues of Michael Jackson which we
came to see in them. Yeah it became the cover and it was on the Thames. They floated it through the
Thames and I mean it was it's anyone except you know. Well I hope they got permission from the
Port of London Authority. So I was just looking at water slides. I was just looking into it like where
because there was a huge I think there were like 30 feet high where have they gone and nine of them
we don't know where they've gone which is really interesting. We do know where one is it's at the best
McDonald's which is... Is that a personal opinion? No it's actually a town called Best
that boarded and so they're by town of worst and in between the two second best. So it stands currently
at McDonald's best parking lot and it's become a big gathering place for Michael Jackson fans and
actually I've got slightly wrong there are two that are known of that still exist. The other one
the pedestal that they made to put Michael Jackson on was using all of the statue stones from a very
famous Stalin monument called the Q from Meet. Do you remember that it was that extraordinary famous
Stalin monument about... I think it had another one you mean? Yeah it's it's if you if you google Stalin
monument it's incredibly famous and they use that to make a thing for Michael Jackson stand on.
Did you guys read about the Ottoman statue taking a selfie? What? There was a statue that was
recently erected it was in the city of Amacia. Amacia I don't know if I pronounced that anyway it's
on the black sea and it was a statue of an old Ottoman prince and he's taking a selfie of himself
with his smartphone and I guess it's supposed to represent the glory of Ottoman princes and also
meant to be a bit hip and down at the times. It's not that great because people were really angry
about it and thought that it kind of demeaned the Ottoman. So they within 24 hours of the statue being
put up they've broken off his smartphone and most of his sword it's been destroyed. There was a thing
though there was a there was a trend of taking photos because you know how ancient statues often
stretching out a hand. Yeah there's a trend for taking photos in that position to show what the
selfie of the statue looks like. Yeah that's a good trend it's a great trend. What's on the people?
Did you guys read about the 45 foot statue of Pope John Paul that was commissioned by
this guy called Lezek Leisen and basically he this guy saved the life of his own son who was
who fell into a lake when they were on holiday in Croatia I think we'll fall into the sea and he
decided that that was thanks to the Pope and so he commissioned and paid for a 45 foot tool
fiberglass bright white statue of Pope John Paul II to be erected and he's disgusting.
Why do you think it was thanks to the Pope? Because I guess it's God and the Pope is the Pope.
The Pope's the Pope sort of came to him and his hour of need and gave him the courage to save his son.
Yeah I guess so. I mean I think he should give himself more credit but I like it so another
issue said yeah but you can imagine the headlines. Local dickhead builds statue of himself
after saving son from drowning. He should do that more in local papers.
Okay that's it that's all of our facts thank you so much for listening. If you want to get in contact
with us about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast you can get us on Twitter.
I'm on at Shriberland Andy I'm driven to him James art Everard Big B and Shazinski.
You can email Everard digby@QI.com. We'll be back again next week with another episode we'll see you
then goodbye.
you